"The Lion King" has been one of my favorite Disney animated films, so I was nervous about seeing Jon Favreau's remake. Surprisingly, from beginning to end, I found myself consistently enjoying this remake more than the original, and I had no problem with it. This remake absorbed my attention with it's astounding, dazzling visuals, and this is the only Disney lifelike remake that has no humans, and animals are my passion. Jon Favreau and his crew pulled it off so well, and how on earth did they do it? Let me explain: When it comes to the craftsmanship, it is an incredible technical achievement; in beats, we all knew it has the same story, but as you are watching it, you are wondering how the filmmaking techniques will execute the same story differently, and I did not expect much at all. Jon Favreau displays his best direction here due to his effective and persistent timing and cadence. Not to mention that he has showcased the movie's heart that is in the perfect place, because of how well he handles the tone. The screenplay by Jeff Nathanson grabs my attention with the dynamic movements of the camera, and speaking of "camera," the gorgeous cinematography by Caleb Deschanel is always gripping with nicely illustrated imagery. "The Lion King" is not only a visually stunning marvel, but also a well-wrought spectacle, because of how vivid, elaborate, and how arresting it is. The filmmakers have reverence by embracing everything that made the original so special, and amplified this remake with realism, more details, skillful filmmaking on display, and depth to the themes and even to the characters. The conservative themes here feel more reactionary than the original; it is injected with military implications and some political dialogue. The effects team brought this movie to life with virtual reality tools teamed with "Unity" to create photorealistic backgrounds with tangible details, and they've made the animals incredibly realistic with animalistic precision. I was also very entertained by the fact that the filmmakers accepted the authentic animal behaviors with body language and no facial expressions, because most animals including big cast don't emote through facial expressions. This film would be an introduction of CGI for kids, but parents have to check in with them first. The filmmakers cut out the anteaters, and used aardvarks and other African animals that families have never knew before. The way Hans Zimmer remade the score is fantastic with more notes, different themes, and more instruments. The new song "Spirit" is a brilliant fit for the film. The entire star-studded cast is pitch-perfect for their characters with effective delivery. And I must add that with gestures and voice-acting, the interactions between these creature characters are palpable. JD McCrary (young) and Donald Glover (adult) are emotionally involving as Simba. Beyonce as Nala is incredibly fitting. Alfre Woodard has fierce authority for voicing Sarabi. John Oliver is so amusing as the energetic Zazu. Timon and Pumbaa here are a hilarious silly gay couple; Billy Eichner is snarky as Timon, and Seth Rogan uses his hysterical energy as Pumbaa. James Earl Jones returns as Mufasa; sounding wise, warm, and old yet capable of using authority. Chewitel Ejiofer is dramatically haunting as the sinister Scar. Scar is portrayed differently here as a brooding and manipulative dictator of wrath, greed, and lust. And lets not forget that the hyenas are dangerously realistic. Highly Recommended for the entire family (suitable for ages eight and up).
Jon Favreau’s The Jungle Book (2016) was an absolute treat! And the moment I came to know about him taking on The Lion King, I was super excited. Jon Favreau’s vision regarding this film has been very clear from the beginning. He wanted to take his Photo-realistic CGI technology he used in The Jungle Book to the next level making his  film look almost as real as a BBC/Discovery Nature Documentary, and he has made it happen. Visually, The Lion King is a majestic and breathtaking experience. If a person isn’t aware of the technology used in the film, s/he will completely be convinced of the film being live action and the characters and scenarios being real. The hard-work of Favreau and the Visual effects team has paid off well. They deserve a standing ovation for this. 

Does the realism of the characters feel as a compromise on the facial expressions and stunts like we had in the animated one? Well, it does. In the traditionally animated movie, animals could be made to give human like profound expressions and perform actions and stunts which isn’t seen in real life. And this film has focused on realism as the defining factor. Thus, making animals show those facial expressions, dance around and perform stunts like they did in animated classic isn’t possible.

Coming to the  story, it has been more or less the same. Some liberation have been taken, there are some scenes removed and some new scenes added. Even a few characters have been modified. While some changes are welcomed, there are a few aspects that I wish were kept same like original.

The background score and music by Hans Zimmer is an upgrade on the original which stays grounded to the soul of the original and further builds upon it. Certain renditions felt even more intense and impactful. Songs composed by Tim Rice and Elton John are more or less the same like the original and Beyonce has done a great job, her rendition of new song Spirit is a soulful piece. Be prepared has been cut short and re-written, but feels adequate according to the film’s situation and script changes.

Coming to the voiceover, James Earls Jones reprises his role as Mufasa, with Donald ‘Childish Gambino’ Glover as Simba (JD McRary as young Simba), Beyonce Knowles Carter as Nala (Shahadi Wright Joseph as young Nala), Chiwetel Ejiofor as Scar, Alfre Woodward as Sarabi, John Kani as Rafiki, Billy Eichner and Seth Rogen as Timon and Pumbaa, John Oliver as Zazu, and Florence Kasumba, Keegan-Michale Key and Eric Andre as Shenzi, Azizi and Kamari. The performances of voice-over cast are good.
 Zazu, Timon and Pumbaa have a great comic timing in the film and really make it entertaining. 

Overall it’s an engaging, fun and entertaining visual treat which should definitely be experienced at Theaters.
As a big fan of this film since childhood, I know that the 1994 version of this visually fantastic movie will never be beaten. Thus, the remake of this film did not reach that goal. However, it did bring some new perspectives for millions of eyes around the world. Jon Favreau, director of many films, including 2016's the Jungle Book, did an excellent job with this CGI remake of the Lion King.
I am proud to be one of several theater witnesses on opening day to watch this wonderfully made film. Although -- admittedly -- the animals don't have a flexible amount of facial expressions, the story, the music, the scenery, to me, is what was most important. I think Jon and the whole cast and crew did a wonderful job recreating a masterpiece, trying not to top it, but trying to expand it a little for the new generation of high film making technology. I did cry a few times, I laughed several times, but my mouth was in awe nearly the entire way through. One of the things that excited me for this movie was the major fact that the legendary James Earl Jones, the original Mufasa himself, decided to come back to play everyone's favorite king of the Pridelands. At age 88, he sounds as though he hardly aged! What a blessing.
Everyone else did a splendid job with their parts, creating emotions through their body language if not through their faces. The crew did beautifully with the realistic visual designs for both the scenes and the characters. The music had me moving so much as it was a near replica of the original soundtrack from 1994 -- only, it was more epic!
Thank you again, Jon, for collaborating with Disney and several other talented people, to help make this movie beautiful, moving, and intense, once again. I look forward to buying this on DVD once it releases!
HAKUNA MATATA.... I really loved this song... 
I haven’t had the fortune of watching the 1994 original The Lion King or the 2012 3D re-release in theaters, but I still remember watching the it on Television after it was digitally re-mastered. From then on, it has been on my top favourite list. I have watched the movie again and again and still cherish the experience. 

Jon Favreau’s The Jungle Book (2016) was an absolute treat! And the moment I came to know about him taking on The Lion King, I was super excited. Jon Favreau’s vision regarding this film has been very clear from the beginning. He wanted to take his Photo-realistic CGI technology he used in The Jungle Book to the next level making his  film look almost as real as a BBC/Discovery Nature Documentary, and he has made it happen. Visually, The Lion King is a majestic and breathtaking experience. If a person isn’t aware of the technology used in the film, s/he will completely be convinced of the film being live action and the characters and scenarios being real. The hard-work of Favreau and the Visual effects team has paid off well. They deserve a standing ovation for this. 

Does the realism of the characters feel as a compromise on the facial expressions and stunts like we had in the animated one? Well, it does. In the traditionally animated movie, animals could be made to give human like profound expressions and perform actions and stunts which isn’t seen in real life. And this film has focused on realism as the defining factor. Thus, making animals show those facial expressions, dance around and perform stunts like they did in animated classic isn’t possible.

Coming to the  story, it has been more or less the same. Some liberation have been taken, there are some scenes removed and some new scenes added. Even a few characters have been modified. While some changes are welcomed, there are a few aspects that I wish were kept same like original.

The background score and music by Hans Zimmer is an upgrade on the original which stays grounded to the soul of the original and further builds upon it. Certain renditions felt even more intense and impactful. Songs composed by Tim Rice and Elton John are more or less the same like the original and Beyonce has done a great job, her rendition of new song Spirit is a soulful piece. Be prepared has been cut short and re-written, but feels adequate according to the film’s situation and script changes.
Overall ,it is a fun and entertaining movie which should definitely be experienced at theaters.. 
My Rating :8/10 Stars
